---
layout: page
title: COVID-19 Advisory
desc: Safety precautions
image: /assets/img/home.jpg
category: Members
---

# COVID-19 Advisory

Safety is a big part of the VPI Cave Club. Because of this, we must impose certain restrictions while caving under the VPI name. These specific ordinances must be followed by all members.

A mirror of these guidelines can be found in [this infographic](https://bit.ly/VPICOVIDGUIDE).

# Attestation

**By caving under the VPI Cave Club banner, I attest that**
* I have been self-monitoring my own health at home.
* I do not have any of the following:
    * Fever, difficulty breathing, chills, sore throat, cough (in the last 24 hrs)
    * Headache, muscle pain, loss of taste or smell (in the last 24 hrs)
    * Diagnosis of COVID-19 (by test or physician) (in the last 14 days)
    * Housemates with symptoms or diagnosis (in the last 14 days)

# Landowners

Please avoid all contact with landowners. Additionally, you CAN NOT go caving if you are not able to receive permission over the phone.

# Wildlife

* Avoid known bat hibernacula during the hibernation season
* Aim for a distance of at least 10 feet from bats (minimum of 6 feet)
* If you see a bat cluster of 5 or more:
    * Report to [Wil Orndorff](mailto:dyetracer@gmail.com) (Virginia Dept. of Conservation and Recreation) OR
    * [Rick Reynolds](Rick.Reynolds@dgif.virginia.gov) (Virginia Dept. of Game and Inland Fisheries)

# Social Distancing

* Follow all [state social distancing guidelines](https://www.vdh.virginia.gov/coronavirus/what-is-social-distancing-and-how-can-i-do-my-part-to-slow-the-spread-of-covid-19/)
* Limit caving trips to family, household, and germ-family groups
* **Understand that social distancing is impossible underground**
* Minimize trips with a higher likelihood of needing rescue, e.g:
    * large number of inexperienced cavers
    * riskier caves

# Club Gear

* Club gear **will not** be available until further notice, including helmets, lights, rope, or vertical systems
* If you do not have your own gear, or cannot find someone to lend, **DO NOT CAVE**
* If you borrow gear from someone, decontaminate for at least 48 hours

# Signout

* **Club signout will NOT be operating until further notice**
* Signout with a **caver** who is not caving that day
    * Include time you leave, which cave, path in cave, ALL the people in your party, and expected return
    * Include landowner contact info and access information for lesser-known caves
    * If you cannot find a caver to sign out with, **DO NOT** go caving

# Missed Signout

Missing a signout time with an individual is ***just as serious*** as missing it at the signout board

* Try to get in touch with the party
* **IMMEDIATELY** call the emergency list
* [Emergency call list](https://bit.ly/VPICAVERESCUE)